[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie state and
naga manchetti our headlines today a new
vaccine produced in the uk
has been found to be highly effective
against coronavirus including
the british variant regulators will
decide if the oxford astrazeneca jab
meets eu approval
after germany questions its used for the
over 65s
and the lockdown in wales will last for
three more weeks
at least but children could return to
school there after the february half
term
good morning as the vaccine rollout
continues bookings for uk holidays
are soaring but does that mean that
foreign trips are off the cards this
year
i'll have some top tips a little later
good morning we knock the wall down
that's what jurgen klopp says as
liverpool's mini crisis is over after
they won their first premier league
match this year
at tottenham good morning we've got some
rain and some hill snow around this
morning which should be easing for most
places
it's mild in the south but it's turning
colder for the weekend
with some more snow for some of us i'll
bring you all the details
coming up shortly
[Music]
good morning it's friday january the
29th our top story is that a new
coronavirus vaccine has been shown to be
nearly 90 percent effective
in large-scale uk trials the novomax jab
which has not yet been approved will be
made in t
side and is effective against both the
uk and south african variants of the
virus
with more details on this and all the
latest vaccine developments here's our
reporter john donaldson
another scientific breakthrough in the
fight against coronavirus
this time from the u.s firm novovax
results of the company's british trial
show the first
proven efficacy against the new more
contagious uk
variant there were more than fifteen
thousand volunteers on the trial
throughout the uk
over half the cases of covid 19 recorded
came from the new variant it's very
significant
because we were able to show that the
vaccine works well
against both the old the original strain
and the new strain it had 96 percent
efficacy
against the original kovid 19 strain and
yet it still had 86
efficacy against the variance strain and
separate trials have also shown the
vaccine works against a new south
african strain it's a fantastic result
because it shows that the novovax
vaccine is effective
against both the uk variant as well as
the south african variant
and has shown phenomenal efficacy and
it's made in t-side so not only have we
trialled the um vaccine to show that
it's safe and effective
but we're also making it too so we'll be
able to save lives in the uk
the vaccine minister nadim zahawi who
took part in the nova vaxx trials
himself
said it was great to see such
encouraging results
and is now awaiting approval from the
regulator the uk
has 60 million doses of the new jab on
order
it will be a huge boost to the
immunization drive which has already
seen
almost seven and a half million people
across the united kingdom
receive a first dose of either the
pfizer or astrazeneca vaccines
but a row continues with the european
union which was much slower off the mark
in ordering and approving vaccines
the eu now wants access to some of the
uk's supply of astrazeneca doses
because of shortages on the continent
the eu regulator
is expected to approve the astrazeneca
vaccine today
meanwhile in germany where the fisa
vaccine is being used
a national vaccine committee has said
the astrazeneca jab
should for now not be given to people
aged 65 and above
because of insufficient evidence of how
effective it is in
older people the government here has
firmly rejected that
our own authorities have made it very
clear that they
think the oxford astrazeneca vaccine is
very good and efficacious they think
that
it is effective across all age groups
and provides
a good immune response across all age
groups
the evidence of how well the astrazeneca
vaccine works in people over 65
is limited but leading scientists here
say they're confident it will give
strong protection
john donaldson bbc news
yes and for more on that story a lot of
questions people have at the moment our
medical editor fergus walsh will be
joining us
after eight o'clock so around about 10
past eight so if you have questions
about that and there is a lot of
information coming through at the moment
about the vaccine
about how it's rolling out but more
specifically especially with the news
today of the new vaccine
about which one and the proportions of
the success rates and
and how it compares with the other
vaccines that are in place so let us
know any thoughts you have
ten past eight let's bring you some
other news schools in wales
could start to reopen fully to all
pupils after the february
half term if covet infection rates
continue to fall in the coming weeks
the welsh government says it will work
with schools on a phased return from the
22nd of february starting with primary
age
children thomas morgan has the details
in the weeks leading up to christmas
cases had surged in wales
and it had the highest transmission
rates of all the uk nations
lockdown was announced six days before
the festive period
since then things seem to be moving in
the right direction
wales now leads the way on the
percentage vaccinated
this has led the labour welsh government
in cardiff to announce that a phased
reopening of schools will begin
after the half-term from the 22nd of
february
it's understood that the youngest years
of primary and possibly gcse and a-level
students of high school
may return to the classroom first but
there is a caveat to the plan
that coronavirus rates continue to
decline and that vaccinations remain on
track to immunize all over 70s with the
first dose
as close to the middle of february
target as possible
if that does happen wales will be the
first country in britain to reopen the
classroom this year
other than schools though there will be
little room to maneuver on
any other lockdown measure for now it
seems expect more detail in the first
minister's press conference this lunch
time
thomas morgan bbc news cardiff
schools in northern ireland will remain
closed to all but vulnerable children
and those of key workers until monday
the 8th of march
at the earliest first minister arlene
foster said whether or not schools open
fully on that date remains in doubt
and will depend on the public health
situation ministers will refuse
review the decision in just under three
weeks
the united arab emirates has been added
to the red list of countries
from where travel to the uk is banned
along with burundi
and rwanda the measure is aimed at
stopping the spread of the south african
variant and comes into force
from 1pm today the uae ban comes after
criticism of british social media
influences visiting dubai
in recent weeks what they claim is work
others say it should be classed
as holiday now a nurse
who gave birth nearly three months ago
while seriously ill with covert 19 has
held her daughter for the first time
ava g kane had the long awaited reunion
with her baby
eliana after being discharged from the
royal papworth hospital
in cambridge nikki fox has this report
celebrating a belated christmas the
mother who spent the first
two months of her baby girl's life not
being able to see
or touch her nurse ava g kane
was discharged from royal papworth
hospital after spending weeks
unconscious
on a machine that helped her breathe the
last thing i remember is
i was in the war and i was a bit shaky
and i was difficulty breathing until all
the doctors came
and that's all i didn't remember
anything ava was 35 weeks pregnant when
admitted to hospital with covid
she had an emergency cesarean section at
basildon
before being transferred to royal
papworth 60 miles away from her baby
ava was placed on an ecmo machine it's
like an artificial lung
only five hospitals in the country have
them
after time on a neonatal intensive care
unit
eliana went home to her father the first
time i really
saw my daughter in person my tears is
just falling i'm
very emotional at that time all those
times from
since day one i'm really emotional and
then
yeah that's it it's brilliant years ago
sorry i just want to thank vasadon and
pappard hospital
i was given the best care and without
them
and without their care i think i would
not be here
a family reunited against all odds nikki
fox bbc news
what a great picture that is kind of
celebrating
now the duchess of cambridge has
revealed that parenting during lockdown
has left her exhausted catherine whose
children prince louis
princess charlotte and prince george are
aged 2 5 and 7.
she was on a video conference with other
parents when she spoke quite candidly
about the challenges of both
homeschooling and home hairdressing
we've had to take on additional roles
that perhaps others around us
in our communities or in our lives would
have perhaps supported us and helped us
with so
you know become a hairdresser this
lockdown
much to um my children's horror
singing love blessing her and we've had
to become unit
teacher you know and i think i
personally
feel pulled in so many different
directions and you try
best everything but at the end of the
day i do feel
exhausted
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news